”


Front Cover”


@page {padding: 0pt; margin:0pt} body {
text-align: center; padding:0pt; margin: 0pt;
}”


”


”


”


”


The Butcher of Anderson Station”


”


The Butcher of Anderson Station by James S.A.
Corey Prelude to The Expanse”


The Expanse 01: Leviathan Wakes 02: Caliban’s
War 03: Abaddon’s Gate 04: Cibola Burn 05:
Nemesis Games”


Short Stories Drive The Butcher of Anderson
Station The Churn Gods of Risk”


”


The Butcher of Anderson Station”


When Fred was a kid back on Earth, maybe five
or six years old, he’d seen a weed growing in
the darkness of his uncle’s cellar. The plant
had been pale and thin but twice as tall as
the ones out in the side yard, deformed by
reaching for the sunlight. The man behind the
bar looked just like that: too tall, too
pale, too hungry for something he’d never had
and never would. Belters were all like that.

The music in the bar mixed Punjabi rhythms
with a high-voiced woman rapping in the
polyglot mess of languages that made up
Belter Creole. The battered pachinko machine
in the back rang and skittered. Hashish smoke
sweetened the air. Fred leaned back on a bar
stool meant for someone ten centimeters
taller than he was and smiled gently.

“Is there a fucking problem?” he asked.

The bartender could have been Chinese or
Korean or a mix of the two. Which meant his
family had probably come up in one of the
first waves. Five generations of grubbing for
air, packing extended families into surveying
ships with seven bunks, looking back at a sun
that was hardly more than the brightest star.
It was hard to think of any of them as human
anymore.

“No problems, jefe,” the bartender said, but
didn’t move. In the mirror behind the bar,
Fred saw the door slide open. Four Belters
slouched in. One had an armband with the
split circle of the Outer Planets Alliance.
Fred saw them see him. He saw one of them
recognize him. The little trickle of
adrenaline in his blood was automatic and
pleasant.

“Then how about you serve me my drink?”

The barkeep didn’t move for a time, and then
he did. Whiskey poured differently in spin
gravity, but not so much that Fred could tell
quite what was wrong about it. The Coriolis
of Ceres Station shouldn’t have been enough
to change the angle, not this close to the
asteroid surface. Maybe it was just that it
fell slowly. The bartender slid the glass
across to him.

“On the house,” the man said, then a half
beat of silence. “Colonel.”

Fred met his gaze. Neither spoke. Fred drank
the liquor neat. It burned and left a taste
at the back of his tongue like old mushrooms
and bread mold.

“You have anything that isn’t fermented
fungus?” Fred asked.

“Als u aprecie no, koai sa sa?” a voice said
from behind him. If you don’t like it, why
are you here? Fred twisted in his seat. One
of the four-pack who had just come in was
glaring at him. He was broad-shouldered for a
Belter. Mech driver, maybe. Or maybe he just
spent a lot of time in the gym. Some of them
did that, using machines and weights and
expensive drug cocktails to give them what
gravity never would.

Why are you here? Decent question.

“I like whiskey that used to be some kind of
grain. You want to suck fungus, don’t let me
stop you.”

The mech driver shifted in his seat. Fred
thought he was going to get up, but instead
the man shrugged and looked aside. His
friends glanced at each other. The one with
the armband had his hand terminal out and was
tapping on the screen rapidly.

“I’ve got some bourbon came from Ganymede,”
the bartender said. “Cost you.”

“Not enough to stop me,” Fred said, turning
back. “Bring the bottle.”

The bartender bent down. His hand shuffled
under the bar. There was probably a gun down
there. Fred could almost picture it.
Something designed to first intimidate, and
if that failed, to put a man down. A shotgun,
maybe, hack-sawed down for close range. Fred
waited, but the man’s hand came up with a
bottle. He put it on the bar. Fred felt a
quick rush of relief and disappointment.

“Clean glass,” Fred said.

“So I think to myself,” the bartender said,
reaching back toward the glassware by the
mirror, “you’re here for something. The
Butcher of Anderson Station in a Belter bar.”

“I just want a drink,” Fred said.

“No one just wants a drink,” the bartender
replied.

“I’m exceptional.”

The bartender grinned.

“You are,” he said, then bent low, his head
almost level with Fred’s. “Look at me,
Colonel.”

Fred unscrewed the cap from the bottle and
poured two fingers into the new glass. He put
the cap back. The bartender didn’t move. Fred
met the pale brown eyes. He was about to say
something, not even sure what it was besides
cutting, belittling, and mean. In the mirror,
something moved. Men, behind him.

Fred had a moment to brace himself for the
knife or the bullet or the blow that didn’t
come before a black bag dropped over his
head.

Three years before, everything had been
different.

“Dagmar in the pipe, ninety seconds to
contact, all green.”

“Roger that, Dagmar. I show you go for breach
in ninety—”

Fred chinned down the volume on the pilot’s
band, reducing their exchanges to faint
background music with lyrics about
positionals and vectors. Ninety seconds
before the breaching team went in.

An eternity to wait.

Fred let out a long exhale that fogged the
inside of his helmet for a second before it
cleared. He tried to stretch, but the crash
couch wouldn’t let him extend his limbs fully
in any direction. The command console showed
eighty-three seconds to contact with Anderson
Station. Breathing and stretching had burned
only seven seconds.

He switched his display to the Dagmar’s
forward airlock. She was a Marine landing
craft, built to lock on to a ship or station
and cut a hole, and the display showed two
hundred marines strapped to vertical crash
cages, weapons locked into quick release
clamps next to them. The airlock was designed
to iris open once the breaching charges had
made an opening and the exterior seals were
latched on.

It was hard to tell when they were all in
vacuum-rated combat armor, but the marines
looked calm. They’d been trained on Luna
until maneuvering in light or null gravity
and vacuum was second nature. They were put
in cramped ships until advancing down
claustrophobic metal corridors with blind
corners at every intersection didn’t scare
them. They were told that marines doing a
full breaching action assault could expect as
high as 60 percent casualties until that
number stopped meaning anything.

Fred looked over his people in their cages
and imagined six out of ten of them not
coming back.

The readout said thirty seconds.

Fred switched his console to radar. Two large
blips flanking the Dagmar. Her sister ships,
each with two hundred marines of their own.
Beyond them, the small, fast-moving escort
ships. Ahead, growing closer by the second,
the massive rotating ring of Anderson
Station.

Everyone was in place, his troops were ready
to go, diplomacy had failed and it was time
to do his job. He opened the command channel
to his squad leaders, ten variations on
background static suddenly piping into his
helmet.

“All squads, ten seconds to breach. Sound
off.”

Ten voices responded with the affirmative.

“Good hunting,” Fred said, then pulled up his
tactical display. The layout of Anderson
Station appeared in a misleadingly crisp 2-D
floor plan. No way to know how much
fortifying the Belters might have done when
they took over the station.

His soldiers showed up as six hundred green
dots, hovering just outside the station.

“Breach, now! Now! Now!” the Dagmar’s pilot
yelled into the comms. The ship shuddered as
the airlock claws sank into the metal of the
station itself, a metallic shriek that Fred
felt right through his padded chair. Gravity
returned in a sideways lurch as the station
began carrying the breaching ships along on
its 0.3 g rotation. A series of high-pitched
bangs sounded as the breaching charges went
off.

Above his tactical display, ten smaller
screens flickered on, his squad leaders
activating their suits’ helmet cameras. The
marines poured through the three new holes in
Anderson’s skin. Fred flipped to the tactical
floor plan, his fingers tapping against it.

“All squads establish beachhead and fallback
position in Corridor L, from Junction 34 to
Junction 38,” Fred said into the comm,
surprised as always by how calm his voice
sounded during a battle.

Green dots moved through the corridors marked
on his display. Sometimes new red dots
appeared when a marine’s HUD detected return
fire and marked the individual as a threat.
The red dots never lasted long. Every now and
then a green dot shifted to yellow. A soldier
down, their armored suits detecting the
injuries or death that rendered them combat
ineffective.

Combat ineffective. Such a nice euphemism for
one of his kids bleeding out on a
piece-of-shit station at the ass end of the
Belt. Sixty percent expected casualties. Four
green dots for every six yellow, and each one
of them his.

He watched the assault play out like a
high-tech game, moving his pieces, reacting
to threats with new orders, keeping score by
tracking how many green dots stayed green.

Three red dots appeared. Four green dots
stopped advancing and took cover. Fred sent
four more green dots into a side passage,
moving them into a flanking position. The red
dots disappeared. The green dots moved again.
It was tempting to get lost in the flow of
it, to forget what all the glowing symbols on
the screen actually meant.

The squad leader for his point team broke his
reverie by calling him on the command
channel.

“Overwatch, this is squad one actual.”

Fred shifted his attention to the helmetcam
view from squad one’s leader. A makeshift
barricade squatted at the other end of a
long, gently sloping corridor. His tactical
display marked a dozen or more hostiles
defending it. As Fred watched, a small object
hurtled over the barricade and detonated like
a grenade just a few yards from his squad
leader’s position.

“Overwatch here, I read you, squad one
actual,” Fred replied.

“Heavily fortified position blocking access
to the main corridor. Could clear it with
heavy weapons, but there would be significant
structural damage, and possible loss of life
support in this section.”

Fred glanced at the tactical map, noting the
proximity of several key life support and
power nodes to the barricade’s position.
That’s why they set up there. Because they
think we won’t.

“Roger that, squad one,” Fred replied,
looking for an alternate route. There didn’t
seem to be one. The Belters were smart.

“Overwatch, interrogative. Use heavy weapons
to clear the barricade, or clear by
advancing?”

Blow up a big chunk of the station’s life
support, killing who knows how many civilians
hiding in their rooms, or send his men in and
let them soak up their 60 percent casualties
to take the position.

Fuck that. The Belters had made their
decision. Let them live with the
consequences.

“Squad one actual, you are authorized for
heavy weapons use to clear this obstruction.
Overwatch out.”

A few seconds later, the barricade vanished
in a flash of light and a cloud of smoke.
Seconds after that, his people were on the
move again.

Three hours and twenty-three yellow dots
later, the call came. “Overwatch, this is
squad one actual. The command center is
taken. The station is ours. Repeat, the
station is ours.”

His arms, tied behind him, ached. Bound at
the ankles, he could either lay on his side
or lever himself up to his knees. He couldn’t
straighten his legs to stand. He chose
kneeling.

The darkness of the sack over his head was
absolute, but judging from the spin gravity,
he was somewhere near the station’s outer
skin. An airlock, then. He’d hear the hiss
and pop as the inner door sealed. Then either
the slow exhalation of evacuated air or, if
they were looking to blow him out into space,
the cough of the security override. He ran
his feet across the floor, trying to find the
seams. Would it slide open, or was it one of
the old hinged designs? The sound that came
wasn’t mechanical. Somewhere to his left, a
woman cleared her throat. A few seconds
later, a door opened, then closed. It had the
soft sound of a pressure seal, but that
didn’t mean much on station. Most doors were
airtight. Footsteps approached him. Five
people. Maybe six. The woman with the tickle
in her throat wasn’t one of them.

“Colonel? I’m going to take that sack off
now.”

Fred nodded.

Light returned to the world.

The room was cheap flooring and raw stone.
Conduits and ducts ran across the ceiling and
walls, and a squat metal desk sat unused in
one corner. A service tunnel. The lights were
harsh. He recognized the four men from the
bar. Another man had joined them. Thin,
young, with a case of acne that deserved
medical attention. Fred craned his neck to
see the woman. She stood at attention, a
fifty-year-old fléchette rifle in her hands,
and the split-circle armband of the OPA on
her bicep.

None of them were wearing masks. When the new
man spoke, his voice wasn’t modified. They
didn’t care whether Fred could identify them.

“Colonel Frederick Lucius Johnson. I’ve been
looking forward to meeting you. My name is
Anderson Dawes. I work for the OPA.”

“Anderson, eh?” Fred said, and the man
shrugged.

“My parents named me after the
Anderson-Hyosung Cooperative Industries
Group. I think I got off pretty light, all
things considered.”

“So what? Anderson Station was like a brother
to you?”

“Namesake. Call me Dawes, if it’s more
comfortable.”

“Fuck yourself, Dawes.”

Dawes nodded, knelt down facing Fred.

“Chi-chey au?” one of the men from the bar
asked.

“Etchyeh,” Dawes said, and the men walked
away. Dawes waited until the door closed
behind them before he went on. “You’ve been
spending a lot of time in Belter bars,
Colonel. Someone might think you were looking
for something.”

“Dawes?”

“Fred?”

“I’ve been through better interrogation
training than you’ll ever see. You want to
build rapport? Go for it. Talk for a while,
take my shackles off, start telling me that
you can save me if I just tell you what I
know. And then I’ll rip your eyes out and
skull-fuck you. You understand?”

“I do,” Dawes said, not missing a beat. “So
tell me, Fred. What happened to you on
Anderson Station?”

Once the skirmishers had finished sweeping
the corridors for stragglers, a detachment of
marines escorted Fred into the conquered
station. He paused at the fallback position
they’d set up just outside the airlock doors.
Marines were beginning to return there from
other assignments. They were hopped-up on
adrenaline and twitchy with post-combat fear.
Fred let them see him. He put his hands on
their shoulders and told them they’d done a
good job.

Some of them came back on stretchers. Yellow
dots made flesh. The corpsmen hurried among
them, plugging their hand terminals into
ports in the downed soldiers’ combat armor,
reading the diagnostics, then assigning their
place in line for surgery based on the
severity of their wounds. Sometimes they
tapped a button on their terminal and one of
Fred’s yellow dots shifted to black. His
command software flagged the fatality and
sent a message to the appropriate squad
leader and company commander to write a
letter to the family. His own task list
received a matching entry.

It was all very clean, very organized.
Centuries of warfare in the electronic age
had distilled it to this. Fred put his hand
on the arm of a young woman whose suit was
reporting severe spinal injuries, and
squeezed. She gave him a thumbs-up that felt
like a punch to the solar plexus.

“Sir?”

Fred looked up and found his first lieutenant
standing at attention. “Are we ready?”

“Yes, sir. Might be a straggler or two, but
we control the corridors from here to Ops.”

“Take me there,” Fred said.

They covered the ground it had taken his
marines hours to win in just a few minutes.
The post-combat cleanup teams were still in
the breaching ships, waiting for the all
clear. Scattered along the corridors lay the
bodies of the fallen enemy. Fred looked them
over. Other than a noticeable lack of OPA
insignias, they were pretty much what he
would have expected. Long, thin men and women
blasted open by explosives, or repeatedly
punctured by small-arms fire. Most were
armed, but a few weren’t.

They rounded a corner into the main corridor
and then came to the barricade he’d ordered
destroyed. Over a dozen bodies lay around it.
Some wore makeshift armor, but most were in
simple environment suits. The concussion
rocket his marines had used to clear the
corridor had burst them like overripe grapes.
Fred’s vacuum-rated armor protected him from
the smell of viscera, but it reported it to
him as a slight increase in atmospheric
methane levels. The stench of death reduced
to a data point.

A small pile of weapons and makeshift
explosives lay nearby.

“That’s what they were armed with?” Fred
asked.

His escort nodded.

“Pretty light stuff, sir. Civilian grade.
Most of it wouldn’t even make a dent in our
armor.”

Fred bent over and picked up a homemade
grenade.

“They threw bombs at you to keep you from
getting close enough to realize their guns
wouldn’t work.”

The lieutenant laughed. “And made us frag the
lot of them. If we’d known they were packing
peashooters, we could have just walked up and
tased them.”

Fred shook his head and put the grenade back
down.

“Get a demolitions team to come clear these
explosives before this homemade shit goes off
and kills someone.”

He looked at the nearby life support node
that had been wrecked by their concussion
rocket. Enough bystanders have died today.
Fred called up the station status report his
cyberops team was updating by the minute.
They showed a total loss of life support in
the section he was in, and in two neighboring
sections. Just over eleven hundred people
with no air and no power. Every door he could
see might have a family behind it who’d
gasped out their last breaths banging to get
out because a bunch of idiot Belters had
built their barricades where they did. And
because he’d chosen to destroy it.

While his lieutenant called for a
bomb-disposal unit, Fred walked toward the
command center. Along the way he saw a few
more Belter corpses. They’d tried to hold the
corridor even after his people had blown up
the first barricade, hiding behind makeshift
barriers and throwing their bathtub-brewed
explosives. Buying time, but for what? The
final result had never been in doubt. They’d
been undermanned and grossly underequipped.
The only reason his soldiers had taken three
hours was that Fred had insisted on moving
cautiously. Looking at the unarmored bodies
on the floor, he realized they could have had
men in the command center in half that time.

They had to have known it too, these people
spread across the floor around him. The
idiots made us kill them.

His lieutenant caught up with him just as he
was entering the command center. Corpses
filled the room, easily twenty of them. While
most of them wore some form of environment
suit or another, one man in the center of the
room wore only a cheap blue jumpsuit with a
mining company logo on the shoulder. He’d
been shot dozens of times. A small-caliber
pistol was glued to one hand with his own
blood.

“The leader, we think,” his escort said. “He
was doing some kind of broadcast. The others
fought to the last man to buy him time. We
tried to take him alive, but he pulled that
little gun out of his pocket, and…”

Fred looked at the carnage around him and
felt a disquieting sensation in his belly. It
lasted only a moment, and then was replaced
by a white-hot anger. If he’d been alone, he
would have gone to the dead man in the cheap
blue jumpsuit and kicked him. Instead, Fred
gritted his teeth.

“What the fuck was wrong with you people?” he
demanded of the dead.

“Sir?” his lieutenant said, looking at the
comms station. “Looks like he was trying to
broadcast right up to the last minute.”

“Let me see it,” Fred said.

“What happened on Anderson Station was that I
did my duty,” Fred said.

“Your duty,” Dawes echoed. He didn’t make it
a question. He didn’t mock it. He just
repeated the words.

“Yes.”

“Following orders, then,” Dawes said.

“Don’t even try it, asshole. That Nuremberg
crap won’t work on me. I followed orders in
that I was instructed by my superior officers
to retake the station from the terrorist
forces occupying it. I judged that order to
be legal and appropriate, and everything that
came after was my responsibility. I took the
station, and I did so while trying to
minimize, first, loss of life to my people
and, second, damage to the station.”

Dawes looked at him. Tiny frown lines
competed with his acne. Something in the
ductwork clacked, hissed, then clacked again,
and stopped.

“You were told to do something. You did it,”
Dawes said. “How is that not following
orders?”

“I gave the orders,” Fred said. “And I did
what I did because I judged it to be right.”

“Okay.”

“You’re trying to give me wiggle room. Let me
say that the Belters who died on Anderson
died because the guy above me made a call.
That’s shit.”

“And why would I be doing that?” Dawes asked.
He was good. He seemed genuinely curious.

“Build rapport.”

Dawes nodded, then frowned and looked pained.

“And then we’re back to the skull-fucking?”
Dawes asked with a grimace. Before he could
stop himself, Fred laughed.

“This isn’t what I’m here for, Colonel,”
Dawes went on, “and I don’t want to get
sidetracked, but doesn’t that go the other
way too? You didn’t fire a shot. You didn’t
touch a trigger or key in a launch code. You
gave orders, but your soldiers judged them to
be just and legal.”

“Because they were,” Fred said. “My people
did the right thing.”

“Because you told them to,” Dawes said. “They
were following your orders.”

“Yes.”

“Your responsibility.”

“Yes.”

The woman with the antique rifle coughed
again. Dawes lowered himself to the cheap
flooring, sitting with legs crossed. Even
then, he was half a head taller than Fred.
His skin was pale where it wasn’t red.
Between the zits and the gawky-elongated
build, Dawes looked like a teenager. Except
around the eyes.

“And the terrorists,” Dawes said.

“What?”

“The men who took the station. You think it
was their responsibility too, yes?”

“Yes,” Fred said.

Dawes took a long breath, letting the air
curl out slowly from between his teeth.

“You’re aware, Colonel, that the assault on
Anderson is one of the best documented
military actions in history. The security
cameras broadcast everything. I’ve spent
months playing those streams. I can tell you
things about the assault you don’t even
know.”

“If you say so.”

“When the barricade blew, eleven people died
in the blast. Three more stopped breathing in
the next two minutes, and the last two
survived until your people came.”

“We didn’t kill the injured.”

“You killed one when he tried to bring his
pistol up. The other one had a collapsed lung
and choked on her own blood before your
medics looked at her.”

“You want an apology?”

Dawes’s smile was cooler now.

“I want you to understand that I know every
action that was taken on the station. Every
order. Every shot fired, and from what gun. I
know everything about that assault, and so
does half the Belt. You’re famous out here.”

“You’re the one who asked what happened,”
Fred said, shrugging as best he could with
bound, numb arms.

“No, Colonel. I asked what happened to you.”

General Jasira’s private office was decorated
like somebody’s idea of a British gentleman’s
club. The furniture was all dark oak and
darker leather. The heavy desk smelled like
lemons and tung oil. The pen set and globe of
Earth on top of it were both made of brass.
The bookshelves were filled with real paper
books and other souvenirs from a long
lifetime of constant travel. There wasn’t an
electronic device more complex than a lamp
anywhere in sight. If it weren’t for the 0.17
lunar gravity, there would be no way to know
it wasn’t an office in London in the early
twentieth century.

The general was waiting for him to speak
first, so Fred swirled the scotch in his
glass instead, enjoying the sound the ice
made and the harsh smell of the liquor. He
drained it in one swallow, then set it back
on the desktop in front of him, an invitation
to be refilled.

As Jasira put another two fingers into it, he
finally gave up on waiting. He said, “I
imagine you’ve had some time to review the
video the terrorists transmitted from
Anderson.”

Fred nodded. He’d guessed this was the reason
for the after-hours invitation. He tried
another sip of scotch, but it had taken on a
sour taste, and he put it back down.

“Yes, sir, I have. We were jamming radio all
the way in, as per protocol, but we didn’t
detect that little tightbeam relay they’d
left—”

“Fred,” Jasira interjected with a laugh.
“This isn’t an inquisition. You aren’t here
to apologize. You did good, Colonel.”

Fred frowned, picked his glass up, then put
it back down without taking a drink.

“Then to be frank, sir, I wonder what I am
here for.”

Jasira leaned back in his chair.

“A couple of little things. I saw your
request for an investigation into the
negotiation team’s work. The declassification
of the negotiation transcripts. That
surprised me.”

As he spoke, Jasira rolled his shoulders,
though in the moon’s fractional gravity they
could hardly be tense. He must have spent a
lot of time dirtside, and the habits died
slow.

“Sir,” Fred said, speaking slowly and picking
his words carefully, “because of the relay,
the public has already seen the battle
footage. We can’t put that genie back in the
bottle. But no one seems to want to talk
about the tightbeam they sent to us at the
end there. We—”

“And how will this information change
anything? You did your job, soldier. The
negotiation team did theirs. End of story.”

“As it stands, sir, the people who took
Anderson look like they’re insane, and we
look like executioners,” Fred said, then
stopped when he realized his voice was
getting loud. Quieting down, he said, “There
was some kind of mistake. That second message
makes it clear that they thought they’d
surrendered. A lot of people died over that
miscommunication.”

Jasira smiled, but there was no humor in it.

“Don’t be so hard on yourself. You barely
lost anybody,” the general said. “Anyway, the
request’s denied. We have no reason to do any
investigation on this matter. The battle
footage is out, and as it stands that works
in our favor. The simpler the message is, the
more people will understand it: Take one of
our stations, and we take it back. Hard. We
can only confuse the issue by turning it
political.”

“Sir,” Fred said, all warmth gone from his
voice. “I killed 173 armed insurgents and
over a thousand civilians in this action. You
owe it to those people—you owe it to me—to
show we did the right thing. What if we can
avoid this happening next time?”

“There isn’t going to be a next time,” the
general said. “You’re the one who saw to
that.”

“Sir, you’re making it seem very much like
this wasn’t a mistake at all. Who gave the
order to ignore their surrender and send me
in? Was it you?”

Jasira shrugged. “It doesn’t matter. You did
what we needed you to do. We won’t forget
that.”

Fred looked at his hands. He rose to his
feet, a little too quickly, bouncing in the
low g, and snapped a sharp salute. Jasira
poured himself another glass of scotch and
drank it off, leaving Fred standing as he
did.

“Will there be anything else, sir?”

Jasira gave him a long, resigned look.

“They’re giving you the Medal of Freedom.”

Fred’s arm turned limp, and his salute
collapsed under its own weight.

“What?” was all he could manage to say.

“I’m going back down the well. I’m too old to
suck vacuum anymore. They’ll pin you with the
UN Marines highest honor, then shortly
thereafter give you your first star. You’ll
have a seat here at OPCOM before the year is
out. Try to look happy about it.”

The silence stretched. Fred focused hard on
nothing about ten feet in front of him. Dawes
watched him for almost a full minute, then
gave up.

“All right. Why don’t I start, then?” Dawes
said. “Here’s what happened. You were
sleeping with one of the marines. Keeping it
quiet because you were the commander, and
that’s a no-no, right? So you’re very careful
taking the station. You keep your casualties
low, but you don’t get lucky and your lover
dies.”

Fred kept his face stony and still. Dawes
leaned back, resting on one long, thin arm
like he was lounging under a tree in some
sunlit park.

“You can’t get the usual psychological
support,” Dawes went on, “because that would
mean exposing the relationship, and you’re
still ashamed of it. You have a little
breakdown. You end up knocking around OPA
bars hoping someone’ll kill you.”

Fred didn’t respond. His legs were past numb
now and starting to hurt. Dawes grinned. He
seemed to be enjoying this.

“No?” the OPA man said. “Don’t like that one?
All right. How about this? Before you joined
up with the Marines, you were a troubled kid.
Did all kinds of bad things. Wild. Joining up
is what straightened you out. Made you into
the staunch, upright, legal, and appropriate
guy you are today. But then the Anderson
Station broadcast comes out. A bunch of
people from your past see the feed and
someone recognizes you. You come back a hero,
but there’s a sting in it. You’re being
blackmailed for… mmm. How about rape? Or, no.
Drug trafficking. You used to cook tabs of
grace in your dorm room, sell it at the
clubs. Now it’s come back to haunt you, and
you have a little breakdown. And you end up
knocking around OPA bars hoping someone’ll
kill you.”

Dawes waved a hand in front of Fred’s eyes.

“Still with me, Colonel? Don’t like that one
either? All right. Maybe you’ve got a sister
who came up the well, and you lost track of
her—”

“Why don’t you save your fucking air,” Fred
growled. “Whatever you’re here for, do it and
be done.”

“Because why matters, Colonel. Why always
matters. Whatever your story is, I know how
it ends. It ends with you, here, talking to
me. That’s the easy part, and I think you’re
here looking for easy.”

“What the fuck is that supposed to mean?”

The woman with the rifle said something.
Either her Belter patois was too accented and
fast or it was some OPA verbal code because
Fred couldn’t even cut the flow of syllables
into individual words. Dawes nodded, took his
hand terminal out of a pocket and keyed
something in. Fred leaned forward, trying to
get the blood flow back into his legs. Dawes
put the hand terminal away.

“You changed, Colonel. The way you behave
changed after Anderson Station. Before that,
you were just another inner planets asshole
who didn’t give a shit whether the Belt lived
or died. You stuck to your bases and your
stage-managed outreach programs and the
station levels where the security gets paid
by Earth taxes. And now, you’re not.

“I’ve lived in the Belt my whole life. I’ve
known a lot of men who wanted to die. They
act just like you. Women don’t. I haven’t
figured that out yet, but the men? Even if
they do take a walk outside or swallow a gun,
there’s always this part before. Taking
risks. Hoping the universe will do it for
them. Make it easy. And the Belt’s an
unforgiving environment. You want to die,
getting sloppy’s usually enough.”

“I don’t give a shit what you think,” Fred
said. “I don’t give a shit what you want, or
who you know. And your popular psychology
horseshit? Yeah, you can drink it with milk.
I have nothing to justify to you. I did my
job, and I’m not ashamed of any decision I
made. With the same information, I’d do the
same thing again.”

“With the same information,” Dawes said,
latching on to the phrase hard. “You found
something out, then?”

“Fuck off, Dawes.”

“What was it, Colonel? What kind of
information turns the Butcher of Anderson
Station into a suicide? What makes him into a
coward?”

The hundred and seventy Belters occupying
Anderson Station hadn’t taken offensive
action yet. Fred watched the station in
false-color IR.

“Priority flash traffic from OPCOM, sir,
cross-checked and verified,” the intel
officer on his monitor said. “Eyes only.
Sending it to you now.”

There was only one line of text.

AUTHORIZATION TO RETAKE STATION GRANTED.

And that was that. Thirty-seven hours of
negotiation was over. Outer Planets Command
was tired of waiting, and they were
unleashing the dogs.

Fred called up the company major and said,
“Put them in their racks. We’re go for
assault. Set the countdown timer to one
hour.”

“Roger that, sir,” the major said with more
glee than Fred was comfortable seeing.

One hour until they went into the station.
Fred called up the negotiation team on the
command ship.

“Psych ops here,” said Captain Santiago, the
team commander.

“Captain, this is Colonel Johnson. We’ve been
given authorization to retake the station. My
people go in in an hour. Do we have anything
left to try? A Hail Mary pass? Have you
warned them about the assault?”

There was no reason for secrecy. There would
be no way to hide three Marine assault craft
on breaching maneuvers.

The silence from the other end stretched out,
and Fred was almost at the point of checking
to see if the line was still open when the
reply came.

“Colonel, are you double-checking my work
here, sir?”

Fred counted to ten slowly.

“No, Captain. But I’m about to send six
hundred marines into the station. In addition
to the 170 hostiles, there are over ten
thousand civilians. Many or all of them could
die before the day’s out. I just want to make
sure we’ve exhausted every other possibility
before we commit to—”

“Sir, I’ve got my orders just like you do. We
did what we could, but Psych Ops is standing
down now. Your turn.”

“Am I the only one that sees that this
doesn’t make any sense?” Fred said. “They
claim they took the station because of a
three percent cargo transfer fee? I mean,
they already threw the administrator who
implemented it out the damned airlock. There
is literally nothing left for them to win by
forcing a fight.”

The only answer was static.

“Let me talk to them,” Fred said. “Maybe if
they hear it from a different voice, they’ll
understand—”

“Sir,” Santiago cut in. “I am not authorized
to do that. You want to argue about it? Call
General Jasira back at OPCOM. Santiago out.”

Fred launched himself at Dawes, pushing out
with numbed legs, and Dawes scuttled back.
Fred landed on the deck hard. The world
grayed out for a second, and he tasted blood.
He struggled forward, trying to get at
Dawes’s feet with his teeth if that was the
best he could manage. He saw the Belter up to
the knees, stepping back. Fred twisted.
Something in his left shoulder made a sick
crunching sound, and a sharp pain shot up his
neck. Then the woman stepped forward.

He looked up into the triangular barrel of
the fléchette rifle, and then past it to the
woman’s eyes. They were the blue of oceans
seen from orbit. There was no pity in them.
Her thumb was on the safety. Her finger on
the trigger. A little pressure, and the rifle
would send a hundred spikes of steel thinner
than needles through his brain. And she
wanted to. It was in the set of her shoulders
and the angles of her face how much she
wanted to end him.

“The problem with you,” Dawes said, his voice
calm and conversational as if they were
sitting in a bar somewhere sharing a beer,
“and I don’t mean this as a criticism of you
in particular. It’s true of anybody who
didn’t grow up in the Belt. The problem with
you is that you are wasteful.”

“I’m not a fucking coward,” Fred said through
his rapidly swelling lip.

“Of course you are. You’re smart, you’re
healthy. Maybe a few hundred people out of
forty billion have your combination of talent
and training. And you’re trying to waste that
very valuable resource. You’re like the guy
who delays replacing his airlock seals when
they start to leak. You think it’s just a
little bit. It doesn’t matter. You’re one
guy. You get killed, no big loss.”

He heard Dawes walking behind him, but his
gaze was still on the rifle. Dawes grabbed
Fred’s collar and hauled him back to
kneeling.

“When I was growing up, my dad used to beat
the crap out of me if I spat someplace other
than the reclamation duct because we needed
the water. We don’t waste things out here,
Colonel. We can’t afford to. You understand
that, though. Don’t you?”

Slowly, Fred nodded. Blood was seeping down
his chin even though Dawes and the woman
hadn’t laid an angry hand on him. He’d done
this to himself.

“When I was about fifteen, I killed my
sister,” Dawes said. “I didn’t mean to. We
were on this rock about a week from Eros
Station. We were going out of the ship to get
some survey probes that got stuck in the
slurry. I was supposed to check her suit
seals, but I was in a mood. I was fifteen,
you know? So I did a half-assed job of it. We
went outside, and everything seemed fine
until she twisted sideways to pull up a rock
spur. I heard it on the comm link, and it
just sounded like a pop. We had the old
Ukrainian-style suits. Solid as stone unless
something broke, and then it all failed at
once.”

Dawes shrugged.

“You’re a fucking piece of shit, then, aren’t
you?” Fred said, and Dawes grinned.

“Felt like that, yeah. Still do sometimes. I
understand why someone could want to die
after a thing like that.”

“So why not kill yourself?” Fred asked, then
spat a dark red clot on the deck at his feet.

“I’ve got three more sisters,” Dawes said.
“Someone’s got to check their seals.”

Fred shook his head. His shoulder vibrated
with sudden pain.

“Why are you telling me this?”

“Builds rapport,” Dawes said. “How’s it
working?”

Fred laughed before he knew he was going to.
Dawes gestured, and the woman put up the
rifle, walking back to her doorway.

“So. Colonel,” Dawes said. “What information
did you get on Anderson Station that you
ended up here talking to a sad sack of shit
like me?”

Fred took a long breath.

“There was a message sent to us as we went
in,” he said. “A message I didn’t see until
it was too late.”

“Let me see it,” Fred said.

“There are a couple things here,” the
lieutenant said. “Got a partial that was
never sent. And one that looks like it’s
being sent to the command ship on infinite
repeat. Also, a running feed that looks like
a straight dump of the security cameras.”

“Do the unsent partial first.”

The video started, and the man in the mining
jumpsuit stared out of the screen. For Fred,
there was a surreal quality to watching a man
alive and speaking while his corpse lay
cooling on the floor behind him.

I could have told him this would happen.

The dead man said, “Citizens of the solar
system, my name is Marama Brown. I’m a
freelance mining technician for
Anderson-Hyosung Cooperative Industries
Group. I, and some like-minded individuals,
have taken control of the company resupply
station.”

Fred hit pause and turned to his lieutenant.
He had a sinking feeling in his gut. The dead
man had expected this to get out. Even though
he had to know they were jamming, he’d
expected the message to be heard.

“Where was that security camera feed going?”
Fred asked.

“I’ll check on that right now, sir,” the
lieutenant replied, and called up the
electronic warfare people back on the Dagmar.
Fred tuned their conversation out, and hit
play again.

“I believe—we all believe that this action is
justified by what has been done here. A man
named Gustav Marconi, the station
administrator, recently implemented a three
percent surcharge on supply transfers. I know
that doesn’t sound like much to some of you,
but most of us are living on the ragged edge
out here. Prospectors, wildcat miners… you
strike it rich or you starve. That’s the
game. But now a bunch of us are going to have
to buy three percent less supplies because it
just got that much more expensive. You can
eat a bit less food. You can drink a little
less water. You can fly a little slower and
stretch your fuel, maybe. You run life
support at bare minimums. But—”

“Sir?” said the lieutenant, and Fred paused
the playback. “Sir, the transmission, at
least some of it, got out. They’d left a
tightbeam receiver and broadcast transmitter
anchored to a rock just outside our jamming
range. We missed it. But the e-war geeks have
triangulated its location and are sending a
Phantom to frag it.”

Too late, Fred thought, and hit the play
button again.

“—what if you’re already running at the bare
minimum? How about every year, you just don’t
breathe for three days? That would about
cover it. Or you don’t drink any water for
three days. Or you don’t eat for three days
when you’re already on the brink of
starvation. When there’s nothing left to cut
back on, how do you make it up then?”

Marama turned away from the camera for a
second, and when he turned back he was
holding his hand terminal. He held it up to
the screen. It was displaying the picture of
a little girl. She was wearing a powder-blue
jumpsuit that had “Hinekiri” hand stitched on
the breast, and grinning with small crooked
teeth.

“This is my little girl, my Kiri. She’s four.
She has what the medics call ‘hypoxic brain
injury.’ She was born a little prematurely,
and instead of the high oxygen environment
she should have had, she was in my
prospecting ship where the air is a little
thinner than the Everest base camps back on
Earth. We didn’t even know anything was wrong
until we realized she wasn’t developing
normally.”

He turned away from the camera and put the
terminal down.

“And she’s not the only one. Developmental
problems arising from low oxygen and
malnutrition are becoming more and more
common. When this was explained to Mr.
Marconi, his reply was, ‘Work harder and you
can afford the increase.’ We complained to
the Anderson-Hyosung head offices, but no one
listened. We complained to the Outer Planets
Governing Board on Luna.

“This isn’t… We didn’t start out intending to
take over the station. It all just sort of
happened,” the man said. For a moment, his
voice seemed to waver. As Fred watched, the
man forced himself back into calm. “We want
everyone to know that, other than Mr.
Marconi, whose crimes would have led directly
to the deaths of thousands of Belters, no one
has been harmed in our taking of the station.
We don’t want anyone else to get hurt. We’re
not violent people, but we have been pushed
so far that there is nowhere left to retreat
to. We’ve been in discussions with a UN
military negotiator for almost two days now.
In a short time, we will be surrendering the
station to them. We’ll send this message out
prior to handing the station over to make
sure our story is heard. I hope no one ever
feels like they have to do something like
this again. I hope, after all of this, that
people can begin talking about what’s
happening out here.”

The video ended. Fred queued up the tightbeam
that had been sent to the negotiation team
during the assault.

Marama Brown again, this time holding a
pistol, his face twisted with fear.

“Why are the Marines attacking?” he said in a
panicked screech. “We just needed some time!
We’re surrendering!”

The message immediately repeated. Fred
stopped it and turned it off.

“Sir.”

Fred took a long breath to fight back the
vague nausea he suddenly felt.

“Go ahead, Lieutenant.”

“Phantom reports a clean hit. The relay is
toast. But, uh…”

“Spit it out, soldier.”

“It was no longer broadcasting. Whatever they
sent, they were done sending it.”

Fred pulled up the comm logs, and confirmed
what he’d already suspected: Marama Brown had
never gotten to send his manifesto. Fred had
been ordered in, and Marama had been busy
trying to stay alive. But his last tightbeam
to Psych Ops had gotten through just fine.
They’d known.

“Sir?” the lieutenant said.

“Doesn’t matter. Call up the cyber wonks and
have them strip the computer core. I’ll go
find the liaison officer and start the
civilian aid phase.”

His lieutenant chuckled.

“Here, kiddies,” the lieutenant said. “We
blew the shit out of your station, have some
free MREs and UN Marine sticker books.”

Fred didn’t laugh.

“You had to have known that they were
desperate out there,” Dawes said.

“Of course I did,” Fred said. “It was in all
the reports. Hell, it was on the news feeds.
Increased overhead. People struggling for the
basics. You hear it all the time. Turn on a
feed now, you’ll hear it again.”

The blood had stopped flowing from Fred’s
mouth, but the inside of his lip tasted raw.
His shoulder was settling into a low,
radiating ache. There was a dark circle of
blood on the decking in front of him.

“But this time it was different?” Dawes said.
He didn’t sound sarcastic or angry. Just
curious.

Fred shifted. His legs were dead lumps of
meat. He couldn’t feel anything. If someone
put a knife into his thigh, it would have
been like watching it happen to someone else.

“That man had a crippled baby girl,” Fred
said. “I killed him.”

“The UN would just have sent someone else,”
Dawes said.

“I still killed him.”

“You didn’t pull the trigger.”

“I killed him because he wanted her to have
enough air to breathe,” Fred said. “I killed
her daddy while he was trying to surrender,
and they gave me a medal for doing it. So
there you go. That’s what happened on
Anderson Station. What are you going to do
about it?”

Dawes shook his head.

“That’s too easy. You’ve killed lots of
daddies. What made this one different?”

Fred started to speak, stopped, tried again.

“They used me. They made it about sending
messages to everyone that you don’t fuck with
Earth, because look at the shit we’ll do just
because you spaced an administrator on a
nowhere station. They made me the poster boy
for disproportional response. They made me a
butcher.”

Saying the words was painful, but there was a
strange relief too. Dawes was staring at him,
his face unreadable. Fred couldn’t meet his
eyes.

Dawes nodded, seeming to come to a decision,
then put a hand in his pocket and took out a
utility knife. When he opened it, the blade
was old and scored. Fred took a deep breath
and let it out slowly. He was ready. Dawes
walked behind him. A fast pull across the
neck, and Fred could bleed out in four
minutes. A stab in the kidney could take
hours. Cut the cords that were tying his
arms, and it could take years.

Dawes cut the cords.

“This wasn’t a trial,” Fred said. “You’re not
here to pass some kind of judgment on me.”

“I wasn’t expecting to,” Dawes said. “I mean,
if it really had been just that you’d been
boning one of your marines, I’d have dropped
you out an airlock, wasteful or no. But I was
pretty sure I was right.”

“So what happens now?”

Dawes shifted Fred forward. The
pins-and-needles feeling was starting in his
hands. Dawes cut the binding on his legs.

“If you want the easy way out, you go kill
yourself on your own damn time and stop
setting the OPA up to take the blame for it.
I’ve got enough bad press without
slaughtering the hero of Anderson Station.”

“And otherwise?”

Dawes sat back on his haunches and closed the
blade with one hand.

“I don’t waste resources, Colonel. If you
want to die, it will do that girl and her
father absolutely no good. If you want to
make it up to her and all the people like
her, I could use your expertise. You’re a
rare resource. You’ve got knowledge and
training, and as the man who is famous
throughout the whole system for killing
Belters, you’re in a position to be our
strongest advocate. All it means is walking
away from everything you know and love. The
life you built for yourself. The admiration
of everyone who looks up to you. All the
things you’d have lost anyway.”

“This was a recruitment, then.”

Dawes stood up, sliding the knife into his
pocket. His smile reached his eyes this time.

“You tell me,” Dawes said. Then, to the
woman, “Recanos ai postar. Asi geendig.”

“Aiis,” she said, shouldering the rifle like
a professional.

The pair walked out together, leaving Fred on
the deck, massaging the agony out of his legs
as the feeling started to return.

”



